We discussed how we can frame
value estimation as a
Supervised Learning problem.
In Supervised Learning,
an important step
is to find the objective
to optimize.
In this video, we'll be more
precise about the objective
we would like to optimize.
After watching this video you
will be able to: understand
the Mean Squared
Value Error objective for
policy evaluation and explain
the role of the state
distribution in the objective.
Let's start by imagining
an idealized scenario.
We get a sequence of pairs
of states and true values.
We want to use this data to find
a parameterized function that
closely approximates V Pi.
We will do this by adjusting
the weights so that the output of
the function closely matches
the associated value
for a given state.
In general, we can't
expect to perfectly
match the value
function on all states.
The function approximately
we choose will
limit the value functions
we can represent.
To make our goal precise,
we need to specify
some measure of how
close our approximation
is to the value function.
Consider a linear value
function approximation
denoted by V hat.
Here to keep the
visualization simple,
the state is a single-dimensional
and continuous.
Let's plot our estimate
of the value function.
Now, imagine the true value
function looks like this.
Clearly, our
approximation of V Pi is
not perfect, but
how far off is it?
Let's define this more precisely.
Let's start by defining
a measure of the error
between the value of a state
and the approximate value.
A natural choice is
the squared error.
That is; the squared difference
between the value and
our approximation.
However, this is not
enough to define
an objective for
function approximation.
Making the estimate more
accurate in one state
will often mean making it less
accurate in another state.
For this reason, we need
to specify how much we
care about getting the value
right for each state.
We will call that Mu of S.
More about that in a second.
We can now write
our full objective as a sum of
the squared error over
the entire state space
where each state
is weighted by Mu.
We call this objective
the Mean Squared Value Error.
Back to Mu. What should
we pick from Mu of S?
Remember, Mu of S should tell
us how much we care
about each state.
A natural measure
is the fraction of
time each state is
visited under the policy.
That means we want to minimize
the average value error for
the states we visit
while following Pi.
The states that the policy
spends more time
in have a higher weight
in the objective.
We care less about errors in
the states the policy visits
less frequently.
Mu of S is a probability
distribution
as shown on the slide.
In this example,
the policy spends
little time at the extremes
of the state space.
This means, under the Mean
Squared Value Error,
we allow the value
approximation to have
higher error in those states.
Now remember the purpose of
defining this objective.
We want to adapt
or weights to make
the Mean Squared Value Error
as low as possible.
From now on we will call
this objective VE bar.
Changing the weights in
one way may increase
the value error while
changing them in
a different way might
decrease the value error.
In the next lecture, we'll
talk about how we can
use gradient descent to
incrementally adjust the weights.
That brings us to
the end of this video.
You should now understand
why policy evaluation under
function approximation
requires us
to specify an objective.
The Mean Squared Value Error is
one possible objective.
See you next time.